# Python Approach

This folder contains the Python scripts that were used to compute indecomposable
tuples for given values of $m$ and $d$. It also contains the output files generated by these scripts.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

Ensure the following are installed:

* Python 3.12.6 or higher

    ```bash
    python --version
    ```

* Git

    ```bash
    git --version
    ```

* (Optional) Jupyter Notebook for `demo.ipynb`

    ```bash
    pip install notebook
    ```

### Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/justinyc1/Degeneracy-and-Sato-Tate-Groups-of-C_p2.git
cd Degeneracy-and-Sato-Tate-Groups-of-C_p2
```

## Usage

### Run

- Navigate to the src folder, where all the scripts are located.

    ```bash
    cd identity_component/python_approach/src/
    ```

- To run the demo:

    ```bash
    jupyter notebook demo.ipynb
    ```

    > This code uses only Python’s standard library (`math`, `time`, `itertools`, `pathlib`, etc.), so no additional packages are required.

- To generate tuples:

    First modify the script and set the desired $p$ and $d$ value. Outputs will automatically be generated in the respective folder.
    ```bash
    python <script_name.py>
    ```


## File Structure

### `src/`: 

The files in this folder should be viewed in the following order:

  - `brute_force_tuple_generator.py` generates tuples via brute force. 
  - `shioda_tuples_generator.py` generates all indecomposable tuples for a given value of $p$ such that $d = \frac{(p+1)}{2}$.
  - `modified_shioda_tuples_generator.py` updates the indecomposable tuples generated using Shioda's equation so that elements $i$ in a tuple that satisfies $i > \frac{(m + 1)}{2}$ are replaced with $i - m$.
  - `max_info_generator.py` identifies the absolute max element in each of the modified tuples and then negates the rest of the elements. This is used for constructing the integrals used to compute the moment statistics.
  - `demo.ipynb` contains an example for $p = 5$ on how to use the code.
  - `primes.txt` contains a list of all primes less than 1000. These values are looped through as values for $p$.

### `outputs/`:

All outputs generated by the scripts in `src` can be found here. Output folders are organized based on the script they were generated by.

  - `brute_force_tuples_outputs` contains indecomposable tuples generated by `brute_force_tuple_generator.py` for different values of $p$ and $d$.
  - `shioda_tuples_outputs` contains the indecomposable tuples for different values of $p$ where $d = \frac{(p+1)}{2}$.
  - `modified_shioda_tuples_outputs` contains all indecomposable tuples which have been modified as stated in **Remark 3.23**.
  - `max_element_info_outputs` contains all the indecomposable tuples such that the absolute max element is identified and all other elements have been negated.
  - `modified_without_max_tuples_outputs` contains all indecomposable tuples such that the max element has been removed.
